README.md, before:

# 6502bench # 

[Features](#key-features) - [Installation](#installation) - [Getting Started](#getting-started) - [About the Code](#about-the-code)

[6502bench](https://6502bench.com/) is a code development "workbench"
for 6502, 65C02, and 65802/65816 code.  It currently features one tool,
the SourceGen disassembler, and runs on Windows 7 or later.

You can download the source code and build it yourself, or click the
[Releases tab](https://github.com/fadden/6502bench/releases) for
downloads with pre-built binaries.


## SourceGen ##

SourceGen converts machine-language programs to assembly-language source
code.  It has most of the features you will find in other 6502 disassemblers,
as well as many less-common ones.

### Key Features ###

- Fully interactive point-and-click GUI.  Define labels, set addresses,
  add comments, and see the results immediately.  Add multi-line comments
  and have them word-wrapped automatically.  Create inline visualizations
  of embedded bitmaps and wireframe data, and define animated sequences.
- Sophisticated static analysis.  The disassembly engine traces code
  execution, automatically finding all instructions reachable from defined
  entry points. Changes to the processor status flags are tracked,
  allowing identification of branches that are always/never taken,
  accurate cycle count listings, and easier analysis of 65816 code with
  variable-width registers.
- Easy generation of assembly source code for popular cross-assemblers
  (currently 64tass, ACME, cc65, and Merlin 32). Cross-assemblers can be
  invoked from the GUI to verify correctness.
- Symbols and constants are provided for ROM and operating system entry
  points on several popular systems.
- Project files are designed for sharing and collaboration.

SourceGen has been used to disassemble software for the Apple II,
NES (Nintendo Entertainment System), Atari 2600 VCS, and coin-op
arcade systems.  Video demos of [basic features](https://youtu.be/dalISyBPQq8)
and [visualizations](https://youtu.be/lSvEr5nCHbY) are available.

#### Features in Detail ####

Analyzer:
- Support for 6502, 65C02, and 65816, including undocumented opcodes
  and the W65C02 extensions.
- Code tagging mechanism allows manual identification of code start/stop
  points and inline data.
- Editable labels are generated for every branch destination and data target.
- Automatic detection and classification of character strings and runs of
  identical bytes.
- Symbol files for ROM entry points, operating system constants, and other
  platform-specific data are stored in plain text files loaded at runtime.
- Extension scripts can be defined that automatically reformat code and
  identify inline data that follows a JSR, JSL, or BRK.

User interface:
- "Infinite" undo/redo of all operations.
- Cross-reference tables are generated for every branch and data target
  address, as well as for external platform symbols.
- Instruction operand formats (hex, decimal, binary, character, symbol) can
  be set for individual instructions. References to nearby symbols are
  offset, allowing simple expressions like "addr + 1".
- Data areas can be formatted in various formats, including individual
  bytes, 16-bit and 24-bit words, addresses, or strings.  Multiple
  character encodings are supported, including ASCII, high ASCII,
  C64 PETSCII, and C64 screen codes.
- Zero-page variables can be given different labels at different points
  in the program.
- Multi-line comments can be "boxed" for an authentic retro feel.
- Notes can be added that aren't included in generated output. These also
  function as color-coded bookmarks. Very useful for marking up a work in
  progress.  Similarly, symbols can be marked as uncertain by adding a
  '?' that is automatically stripped away during code generation.
- Instruction reference data, such as CPU cycles and flags modified,
  are shown along with a description of the opcode's function.  Very
  useful when encountering rarely-used undocumented instructions.
- Various aspects of the code display can be reconfigured, including
  upper/lower case, pseudo-opcode naming, and expression formats. These
  choices are not part of the project definition, so everyone can view a
  project according to their own personal preferences.

Code generation:
- Labels can be global or local.  Use non-unique labels like "@Loop"
  for clarity.  Labels will be promoted from local to global or renamed
  to be unique as required by each assembler.
- Symbols may be exported from one project and imported into another to
  facilitate multi-binary disassembly.
- Listings can be generated in HTML form for publication on the web.
  Many aspects of the output format can be configured.  Inline
  visualizations are exported as GIF or animated GIF.

Miscellaneous:
- All project data is stored in text formats (primarily JSON).
- The project file includes nothing from the data file but a CRC. This may
  allow the project to be shared without violating copyrights (subject to
  local laws).
- Handy tools: file slicer, file concatenator, CPU instruction reference
  chart, ASCII chart, file hex dump.
- The OMF converter tool can be used to disassemble Apple IIgs executables.

#### Limitations ####

While the 65816 CPU is fully supported, SourceGen can be awkward to use
with the large binaries that the expanded architecture makes possible.  The
disassembly is displayed in a single scrolling window, so projects for
binaries larger than about 100KB become difficult to navigate.  There may
also be performance issues at larger sizes.  SourceGen currently imposes an
arbitrary 1MB limit on the data file.

Generating output larger than 64KB requires some target-specific
directives, e.g. for defining OMF segments for Apple IIgs executables.
SourceGen does not currently support these.  While you can generate source
for a binary larger than 64KB, most cross-assemblers will fail to assemble
it without additional edits.

The zero-page argument for the Rockwell BBR/BBS instructions cannot be
formatted.

To learn about other areas for potential future development, visit the
wiki section for the
[current "TO DO" list](https://github.com/fadden/6502bench/wiki/TO-DO-List).

To learn about the past, check the
[change log](https://github.com/fadden/6502bench/wiki/Change-Log).


## Installation ##

There is currently no installer -- just unzip the archive and run the
"SourceGen.exe" executable.  The data files used by the program are found
automatically in the directory where the .EXE lives.

You need to have Microsoft .NET Framework v4.6.2 or later installed.  Most
people will already have this.  If SourceGen doesn't seem to want to start,
download the latest version (currently v4.7.2)
[directly from Microsoft](https://www.microsoft.com/net/download/dotnet-framework-runtime).
The framework requires Win7 SP1, Win8.1, or Win10 updated through at least
the Anniversary Update (1607).  (One user who had trouble with the 4.7.2
installer was able to get the 4.6.2 installer to work.)

SourceGen does not currently run on Linux or Mac OS X.  My understanding is
that .NET apps don't work under WINE, so it can only be run on a full
Windows system emulation.

(SourceGen versions 1.0 and 1.1 used the WinForms API, which has been
implemented for Mono, but after encountering significant bugs that I wasn't
able to work around I abandoned the approach and switched to WPF.  Besides
working better under Windows, WPF uses a more modern approach (XAML) that
may ease the transition to a cross-platform GUI API like Avalonia.)


## Getting Started ##

The best way to get started is by working through the tutorial.  Launch
SourceGen, hit F1 to open the user manual in your web browser, then look
for the Tutorial link in the index.  Click it and follow the instructions
there.  Note this is a "follow along" tutorial, not a "read it" tutorial.

I strongly recommend doing this.  Some aspects of SourceGen are non-obvious.

The tutorial is one of several examples included in the SourceGen
distribution.  The other directories contain project and data files for
completed disassembly projects alongside the original source code, allowing
a direct comparison between how the code was written and how SourceGen can
display it.


## About the Code ##

The source code is licensed under Apache 2.0
(http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0), which makes it free for use in
both open-source programs and closed-source commercial software.  The license
terms are similar to BSD or MIT, but with some additional constraints on
patent licensing.  (This is the same license Google uses for the Android
Open Source Project.)

Images are licensed under Creative Commons ShareAlike 4.0 International
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).

For additional details, see the [source code notes](SourceNotes.md).

Commit message:

Update docs to point to new tutorial
Replaced the link at the top of the manual.  Remove reference to
old tutorial doc.  Added an obsolescence notice to the top of the
old tutorial.  Updated tutorial message and link in README.

Also, fixed sidenav style.

README.md, after:

# 6502bench # 

[Features](#key-features) - [Installation](#installation) - [Getting Started](#getting-started) - [About the Code](#about-the-code)

[6502bench](https://6502bench.com/) is a code development "workbench"
for 6502, 65C02, and 65802/65816 code.  It currently features one tool,
the SourceGen disassembler, and runs on Windows 7 or later.

You can download the source code and build it yourself, or click the
[Releases tab](https://github.com/fadden/6502bench/releases) for
downloads with pre-built binaries.


## SourceGen ##

SourceGen converts machine-language programs to assembly-language source
code.  It has most of the features you will find in other 6502 disassemblers,
as well as many less-common ones.

### Key Features ###

- Fully interactive point-and-click GUI.  Define labels, set addresses,
  add comments, and see the results immediately.  Add multi-line comments
  and have them word-wrapped automatically.  Create inline visualizations
  of embedded bitmaps and wireframe data, and define animated sequences.
- Sophisticated static analysis.  The disassembly engine traces code
  execution, automatically finding all instructions reachable from defined
  entry points. Changes to the processor status flags are tracked,
  allowing identification of branches that are always/never taken,
  accurate cycle count listings, and easier analysis of 65816 code with
  variable-width registers.
- Easy generation of assembly source code for popular cross-assemblers
  (currently 64tass, ACME, cc65, and Merlin 32). Cross-assemblers can be
  invoked from the GUI to verify correctness.
- Symbols and constants are provided for ROM and operating system entry
  points on several popular systems.
- Project files are designed for sharing and collaboration.

SourceGen has been used to disassemble software for the Apple II,
NES (Nintendo Entertainment System), Atari 2600 VCS, and coin-op
arcade systems.  Video demos of [basic features](https://youtu.be/dalISyBPQq8)
and [visualizations](https://youtu.be/lSvEr5nCHbY) are available.

#### Features in Detail ####

Analyzer:
- Support for 6502, 65C02, and 65816, including undocumented opcodes
  and the W65C02 extensions.
- Code tagging mechanism allows manual identification of code start/stop
  points and inline data.
- Editable labels are generated for every branch destination and data target.
- Automatic detection and classification of character strings and runs of
  identical bytes.
- Symbol files for ROM entry points, operating system constants, and other
  platform-specific data are stored in plain text files loaded at runtime.
- Extension scripts can be defined that automatically reformat code and
  identify inline data that follows a JSR, JSL, or BRK.

User interface:
- "Infinite" undo/redo of all operations.
- Cross-reference tables are generated for every branch and data target
  address, as well as for external platform symbols.
- Instruction operand formats (hex, decimal, binary, character, symbol) can
  be set for individual instructions. References to nearby symbols are
  offset, allowing simple expressions like "addr + 1".
- Data areas can be formatted in various formats, including individual
  bytes, 16-bit and 24-bit words, addresses, or strings.  Multiple
  character encodings are supported, including ASCII, high ASCII,
  C64 PETSCII, and C64 screen codes.
- Zero-page variables can be given different labels at different points
  in the program.
- Multi-line comments can be "boxed" for an authentic retro feel.
- Notes can be added that aren't included in generated output. These also
  function as color-coded bookmarks. Very useful for marking up a work in
  progress.  Similarly, symbols can be marked as uncertain by adding a
  '?' that is automatically stripped away during code generation.
- Instruction reference data, such as CPU cycles and flags modified,
  are shown along with a description of the opcode's function.  Very
  useful when encountering rarely-used undocumented instructions.
- Various aspects of the code display can be reconfigured, including
  upper/lower case, pseudo-opcode naming, and expression formats. These
  choices are not part of the project definition, so everyone can view a
  project according to their own personal preferences.

Code generation:
- Labels can be global or local.  Use non-unique labels like "@Loop"
  for clarity.  Labels will be promoted from local to global or renamed
  to be unique as required by each assembler.
- Symbols may be exported from one project and imported into another to
  facilitate multi-binary disassembly.
- Listings can be generated in HTML form for publication on the web.
  Many aspects of the output format can be configured.  Inline
  visualizations are exported as GIF or animated GIF.

Miscellaneous:
- All project data is stored in text formats (primarily JSON).
- The project file includes nothing from the data file but a CRC. This may
  allow the project to be shared without violating copyrights (subject to
  local laws).
- Handy tools: file slicer, file concatenator, CPU instruction reference
  chart, ASCII chart, file hex dump.
- The OMF converter tool can be used to disassemble Apple IIgs executables.

#### Limitations ####

While the 65816 CPU is fully supported, SourceGen can be awkward to use
with the large binaries that the expanded architecture makes possible.  The
disassembly is displayed in a single scrolling window, so projects for
binaries larger than about 100KB become difficult to navigate.  There may
also be performance issues at larger sizes.  SourceGen currently imposes an
arbitrary 1MB limit on the data file.

Generating output larger than 64KB requires some target-specific
directives, e.g. for defining OMF segments for Apple IIgs executables.
SourceGen does not currently support these.  While you can generate source
for a binary larger than 64KB, most cross-assemblers will fail to assemble
it without additional edits.

The zero-page argument for the Rockwell BBR/BBS instructions cannot be
formatted.

To learn about other areas for potential future development, visit the
wiki section for the
[current "TO DO" list](https://github.com/fadden/6502bench/wiki/TO-DO-List).

To learn about the past, check the
[change log](https://github.com/fadden/6502bench/wiki/Change-Log).


## Installation ##

There is currently no installer -- just unzip the archive and run the
"SourceGen.exe" executable.  The data files used by the program are found
automatically in the directory where the .EXE lives.

You need to have Microsoft .NET Framework v4.6.2 or later installed.  Most
people will already have this.  If SourceGen doesn't seem to want to start,
download the latest version (currently v4.8)
[directly from Microsoft](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/download/dotnet-framework/net48).
The framework requires Win7 SP1, Win8.1, or Win10 updated through at least
the Anniversary Update (1607).  (One user who had trouble with the 4.7.2
installer was able to get the 4.6.2 installer to work.)

SourceGen does not currently run on Linux or Mac OS X.  My understanding is
that .NET apps don't work under WINE, so it can only be run on a full
Windows system emulation.

(SourceGen versions 1.0 and 1.1 used the WinForms API, which has been
implemented for Mono, but after encountering significant bugs that I wasn't
able to work around I abandoned the approach and switched to WPF.  Besides
working better under Windows, WPF uses a more modern approach (XAML) that
may ease the transition to a cross-platform GUI API like Avalonia.)


## Getting Started ##

The best way to get started is by working through the tutorial, available
on the [web site](https://6502bench.com/sgtutorial/).  I strongly recommend
doing this, as some aspects of SourceGen are non-obvious.

Several examples of completed projects are included in the SourceGen
distribution.  Most of these are alongside the original source code,
allowing a direct comparison between how the code was written and how
SourceGen can format and display it.


## About the Code ##

The source code is licensed under Apache 2.0
(http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0), which makes it free for use in
both open-source programs and closed-source commercial software.  The license
terms are similar to BSD or MIT, but with some additional constraints on
patent licensing.  (This is the same license Google uses for the Android
Open Source Project.)

Images are licensed under Creative Commons ShareAlike 4.0 International
(https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-sa/4.0/).

For additional details, see the [source code notes](SourceNotes.md).
